---

layout: post
title: Most of the election "forecasts" are not forecasts
category: Meta

---

The NY Times compiles a
[list](http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/upshot/presidential-polls-forecast.html)
of "forecasts" of the presidential election. People I know are paying
a lot of attention to the NY Times's forecast (The Upshot) and the 538
forecast. As the reported probability of Hillary Clinton winning
varies, so do their hopes and anxieties.

These forecasts are not really forecasts, however. At the very least,
they are not what we usually think of when we think of
forecasts. Forecasts are predictions about the future. For the most
part, the forecasts that the NY Times reports are judgements about who
would win if the election were *today* - or a "now-cast" (as the 538
people call their explicitly non-forecasting non-forecast). Claiming
that these are forecasts is like estimating whether it will rain this
weekend by looking out the window.

Of those reported on the NY Times site, the Huffington Post "forecast"
is the only one that explicitly says it is a now-cast. And there are
other forecasts on the site that are, without a doubt, actually
forecasts. These are the ones that are not based on statistical models
but on the subjective reports of experts (Cook's Political Report,
Rothenberg & Gonzalez, and Sabato's Crystal Ball) or the aggregated
subjective reports of gamblers (Predictwise).

Although the FiveThirtyEight ("polls-only"
model)[http://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2016-election-forecast/#odds]
is described as being a true forecast, but comparing their
[now-cast](http://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2016-election-forecast/#now&odds)
to the polls-only forecast suggests that the forecast is just a
smoothed out version of the now-cast. That is, to the degree that the
polls-only model is actually a forecast, it is a poor one, since it
varies tremendously, suggesting that it has little predictive power
beyond just assuming that what is true today will be true on November
8th. 

The remaining "forecasts" do not specify how they work, so it is
unclear whether they are really forecasts in a meaninful sense, but
given that they all (other than the PEC one that has a broken link)
look a lot like now-casts.

It is instructive to compare these probable now-casts to the one true
quantitative forecast, the one at
(Predictwise)[http://predictwise.com/politics/2016-president-winner#Link11]. Note
how much smaller the variance is. And note too the large, consistent,
and increasing gap between Clinton and Trump.





