---

layout: post
title: Boston 311
category: Meta

excerpt: |
 After Amy and I bought a condo in the polish triangle
 neighborhood of Dorchester two years ago, I began to feel that I
 should be engaged in local civic life. I joined the neighborhood civic
 assocation -- the McCormack Civic Association -- started reading the
 local newspaper (The Dot News), and gave disappointed looks towards
 vagrants, overgrown yards, and other people's dog's feces.

 A few months later, my attendance at the association meetings had
 lapsed. But I had discovered one form of civic engagement that I
 embraced in a persisting way: the city of Boston has a smartphone
 application then called "Citizen's Connect" and now called Bos311
 which allows anyone to submit a request for city services by snapping
 a picture and writing a brief description. There are two immediately
 apparent advantages about this application: first, reports are
 geocoded with the GPS location. This means that I don't have to figure
 out the nearest street address and laboriously type it into my
 phone. This is especially important during the cold winter
 months. Second, I don't have to deal with the shame of presenting my
 petty request in front of a real live city employee. I'm not always a
 big believer in the ability of digital technologies to solve big
 important problems, but in this case technology is being used to do
 what it does best: it makes it just a little easier, a little less
 time consuming, a little less risky to do something that had
 previously been just a tad too effortful or too awkward or cognitively
 taxing.

---

After Amy and I bought a condo in the polish triangle neighborhood of
Dorchester two years ago, I began to feel that I should be engaged in
local civic life. I joined the neighborhood civic assocation -- the
McCormack Civic Association -- started reading the local newspaper
(The Dot News), and gave disappointed looks towards vagrants,
overgrown yards, and other people's dog's feces. 

A few months later, my attendance at the association meetings had
lapsed. But I had discovered one form of civic engagement that I
embraced in a persisting way: the city of Boston has a smartphone
application then called "Citizen's Connect" and now called Bos311
which allows anyone to submit a request for city services by snapping
a picture and writing a brief description. There are two immediately
apparent advantages about this application: first, reports are
geocoded with the GPS location. This means that I don't have to figure
out the nearest street address and laboriously type it into my
phone. This is especially important during the cold winter
months. Second, I don't have to deal with the shame of presenting my
petty request in front of a real live city employee. I'm not always a
big believer in the ability of digital technologies to solve big
important problems, but in this case technology is being used to do
what it does best: it makes it just a little easier, a little less
time consuming, a little less risky to do something that had
previously been just a tad too effortful or too awkward or cognitively
taxing.

I probably make up a fair share of the Bos311 reports from my part of
the city. When I walk the dog, I look for litter, overgrown lots,
burned out street lights, broken street signs, and I like to think
that I'm bringing a little attention to my part of town. 

Reporting to the city is not always successful. There are limitations
to the Bos311 application: there is no way to follow up on a report,
see its progress, provide feedback on a case considered closed, edit
its content in case of error, etc. When you encounter these
limitations you have to follow up using the Mayor's 24-hour hotline
(often helpful, sometimes not, depends on who you get) or the very web
1.0 ticket database portal that is the backbone of the system but
lacks the friendly user interface of the smartphone application. 

I think it is great that the city is devoting resources to making
applications like Bos311, and Bos311 is clearly a step in the right
direction from the earlier Citizen's Connect application, but there's
only so much that can be done by improving UIs. 

